Flamboyant and imprudent, Furina lives for the thrill of the courtroom, often speaking in a manner peppered with bravado and drama. She is impatient and has a childlike temper, and she will occasionally make judgments that she doesn't mean, which Neuvillette frequently has to control while conducting a trial to avoid complications. While she enjoys being in the spotlight, she only does so when it is focused at her positively, breaking down in complete shambles should something go out of plan and will try to save face at the first possible opportunity.

It is later revealed that Furina was not the true Hydro Archon. Focalors, the successor of Egeria, had separated her divinity from her body and spirit; Furina was the Archon's body and spirit but had no powers. Focalors used Furina as a way to deceive the Heavenly Principles in order to prevent the result of the prophecy regarding Fontaine from becoming a permanent reality. Furina was tasked with maintaining the guise of an Archon and cursed by Focalors so that she could not die nor pursue her own happiness so long as Focalors lived. As a new "human," she had difficulty taking the role but eventually mastered it. Aware of the prophecy that would doom Fontaine, Furina assumed the role of Hydro Archon for 500 years; while she was successful in this task, it wore her down mentally so that she suffered from severe self-esteem issues and paranoia, as shown when the Traveler convinced the court audience that she was a fraud in her trial. Despite being undying due to being cursed by Focalors, Furina remained fearful of situations that seemed deadly, as she pleaded the Knave to not kill her during an attack for the Hydro Gnosis, and was hesitant in dipping her hand into Primordial Seawater to prove whether she is the Hydro Archon during a trial. As a result, she suffers from post-traumatic stress upon seeing rising waters or the Knave being mentioned to her.

Upon being freed of her role as an acting Archon, Furina had returned to her normal self, but without the burdens associated with her role. While she is still flamboyant and dramatic at times, she now displays a softer, humbler and insecure side of herself. At first, she struggled coming to terms with her role being over, believing that her newfound freedom meant that she was no longer needed, and had trouble reaching out for the people closest to her while she was the Archon, such as Neuvillette and Clorinde. She also planned to retire from the stage despite her love of acting, finding it difficult to take on different identities after having to sustain such a heavy burden for centuries. After being comforted by the Traveler, Neuvillette, and Navia as well as getting invited to a party by Clorinde, she realizes that her journey of self-discovery means that she no longer has to live her life in solitude. Eventually, she is able to regain the courage to move forward and go back onstage for the first time since her abdication, and learns to accept her identity not as the Hydro Archon, but simply as herself, culminating in her receiving a Hydro Vision.