Rikka's case of chuunibyou is common among chuunibyou cases, constantly living out her fantasies and exhibiting strange behaviors as a result.

She is very dramatic and theatrical, claiming to possess the "Tyrant's Eye" which allows her to reveal destinies, even wearing an eye-patch to "seal its' powers". Her delusions tend to reflect her feelings in real life, such as how she professed that tomatoes burn away one’s mana so as to avoid eating. She likes to make references to other anime and fictional works related to her chuunibyou fantasies. Though she does her best to commit to her fantasies, there are a few moments when Rikka will break character. An example of one of these moments could be seen when she gets flustered or gets hit in the head by her boyfriend, Yuuta, or her sister, Tōka Takanashi. She is often stared at by her classmates in a rather rude fashion due to her weird outbursts, and doesn't try too hard to make friends. Although she acts like a cool and mysterious sorceress, Rikka is in fact extremely clumsy, usually receives poor grades, and failed miserably when she tried to join other clubs such as cheerleading.

Later, when Yuuta lashes out at Rikka for using her delusions as an excuse to run away from her problems, she becomes much more somber and mellow. It is revealed that when Rikka's father passed away, the suddenness of his death was so shocking that Rikka refused to accept it, instead inventing a fantasy world which would allow her to see her father beyond "the invisible boundary lines" (不可視境界線 fukashikyoukaisen - "Ethereal Horizon" in early subs). With the help of Yuuta, she eventually comes to terms with her fathers’ death and tearfully says her goodbyes to him. She reverts back to her chuunibyou state, though this time at peace as she begins developing feelings for Yuuta.

She often brings her main “weapon” around, which is the Schwarz Shield Prototype Mark-II, a spring-loaded umbrella. With it, she can cast special attacks such as "Gungnir", "Schwarz Schild", "Wicked Twinkle", "Dark Matter Blaze", "Judgement Lucifer", "Laplace-Sphere", and such.